
# UI Design Workshop

## Excerpt

What is it? A UI workshop is an activity in which participants quickly sketch rough ideas for the user interface. These ideas can be written…

- A UI workshop is an activity in which participants quickly sketch rough ideas for the user interface.

- These ideas can be written on a whiteboard, sticky notes, or sheets of paper. (A tall sticky note makes a great template for a mobile screen.)

- The workshop can be run with just a facilitator and a UX designer, but including the entire team is even better.

- At the end of the workshop, the participants can vote by adding dots to their favorites.

- Later, the best "low-fidelity" designs can serve as the basis for interactive prototypes or more complete designs.

- UI design workshops help take a high-level business process (such as an [event storm](https://openpracticelibrary.com/practice/event-storming/)) and turn it into something concrete that developers can begin working on.

- This activity generates new ideas and builds a shared understanding, particularly if the entire team participates.

- Jump-start development by creating just enough design for the team to begin working.

- A quick, rewarding activity like this one builds confidence and experience in team members who might be new to user experience design.

- Participants can produce the design assets they need to move forward, even if the team does not have a dedicated UX designer.

1. Describe what we're sketching:

- User goal
- What size sticky
- Mobile-first?
- How long they have
- Use multiple stickies to depict the user flow

2. Everyone sketches - 10 min

3. Playback from each person (and put stickies on board) - 2 min per person

4. Gather feedback - 2-3 min per each person's flow (green/red stickies with comments on what exactly they like/dislike)

5. Another round of sketching - 5-7 min

6. Mark each screen with a letter and number

7. More playback - 2 min per person (tell everyone to write down the letter/number combo of what they like)

8. Merge based on the votes/bingo

### Alternate facilitation style

Instead of merging the designs in steps 6-8, ask the team to dot vote on elements of each deisgn. A UX designer can then use those sketches as inspiration for more detailed wireframes.
