
title:: Design Sprint
date:: [[2025-05-06]]
created-time:: 6 May 2025 at 2:37:04 PM
tags:: 
source:: https://openpracticelibrary.com/practice/user-persona/
author:: [[]]
location:: Singapore, SG
---

- ## Excerpt
  > What is it? It is a 5 day customer-centric process for rapidly solving a key challenge, creating new products, or improving existing ones…

  - ---


It is a 5 day customer-centric process for rapidly solving a key challenge, creating new products, or improving existing ones. Design sprints enable you to:

-   Clarify the problem at hand, and identify the needs of potential users
-   Explore solutions through brainstorming and sketching exercises
-   Distil your ideas into one or two solutions that you can test
-   Prototype your solution and bring it to life
-   Test the prototype with people who would use it The process phases include: Understand, Define, Sketch, Decide, Prototype and Validate.

The aim is to fast-forward into the future to see your finished product and customer reactions, before making any expensive commitment. It is a simple and cheap way to validate major assumptions, the Big question/s and point to the different options to explore further through delivery. This set of practices reduces risks when bringing a new product, service or a feature to the market. Design Sprints are the fastest way to find out if a product or project is worth undertaking, if a feature is worth the effort, or if your value proposition is really valid. For the latter one should also consider running a [Research Sprint](https://library.gv.com/the-gv-research-sprint-a-4-day-process-for-answering-important-startup-questions-97279b532b25). It compresses work into one week and importantly tests the design idea and provides real user feedback in rapid fashion.

### A Sample Agenda

By now there are many different variations of the format. You may come across the Google variation, a GV variation, the Design Sprint 2.0 (which is the agenda shown below). The best is to try different variations and judge which one works for what context.

#### Monday

-   Intro \* How Might We \* Map \* Lightning Demos \* Notes Taking \* Crazy 8's \* Long Term Goals \* Sprint Questions \* Lightning Demos \* Drawing Ideas \* Start user test recruiting \* Develop Concepts

#### Tuesday

-   Decide on Solution \* Storyboard design \* Decider Vote \* Storyboard Final Walk-through \* User test recruiting

#### Wednesday

-   Prototype creation \* User test preparation \* Interview room setup

#### Thursday

-   Testing with end-users \* Analyse results and prepare findings

#### Friday

-   Showcase (demonstrate process & findings)
